### Payroll/Liquor Ethics

The Payroll and liquor data discussions that were planned for class could certainly spur an ethical debate in class. Students would be able to talk about their opinions as to what the government limit of registrations for liquor licenses or locations of liquor licenses or how they would implement such limitations and regulations.

Students would also discuss whether or not payroll of public employees should be public or not. What are their opinions of teachers' salaries being public? What do they think of what teachers are getting paid? What are the motivations for those beliefs and what are the motivations for or against making public servant payroll information public? These are all wonderful questions that would get a class animated and passionate, because it involves them directly. 

If there is data that the government has, there is someone who mandated that data be collected about that specific thing. Parks attendance is likely measured to control funding. Payroll is public because there are people that demand that the government reduce its bureaucracies and inefficiencies. Liquor license data is likely public so that groups that would like to track the presence of legal vice in their neighborhoods are able to do so with precision. The same is true for the data that we have explored in the other API practices - prison population, recidivism, crime, etc. Anything that the government funds, people will want to have a say in. We can take advantage of that desire to opine and turn it into classroom discussions about implementation and ethics of the computer programming side of those issues.